        Day 1                           05/06/18                           Suhas  Jadhav



1. Build 2 scenarios each showing implementation of standalone scripts and web based .

Ans -  Standalone app :    Medicine remainder, Budget calculator.

           Web based app :    Online Laundry. 


2. List down programming languages used for server-side scripting and client-side scripting.

Ans -
1. Server side scripting-

C -
C is a general-purpose, imperative computer programming language, supporting structured programming, lexical variable scope and recursion, while a static type system prevents many unintended operations. 

Java -
Java is a general-purpose computer-programming language that is concurrent, class-based, object-oriented, and specifically designed to have as few implementation dependencies as possible.

Perl -  Practical Extraction and Reporting Language
Perl is a family of high-level, general-purpose, interpreted, dynamic programming languages. The languages in this family include Perl 5 and Perl 6.

PHP - Hypertext Preprocessor
Hypertext Preprocessor is a server-side scripting language designed for Web development, but also used as a general-purpose programming language.
 
Python -
Python is a general-purpose interpreted, interactive, object-oriented, and high-level programming language.
 
R -  
R is a programming language and free software environment for statistical computing and graphics that is supported by the R Foundation for Statistical Computing.
 
Ruby - 
Ruby is a dynamic, interpreted, reflective, object-oriented, general-purpose programming language.

C# -
C# is a multi-paradigm programming language encompassing strong typing, imperative, declarative, functional, generic, object-oriented, and component-oriented programming disciplines.
 
Haskell -
Haskell is a standardized, general-purpose compiled purely functional programming language, with non-strict semantics and strong static typing.
 
Elixir -
Elixir is a functional, concurrent, general-purpose programming language that runs on the Erlang virtual machine. Elixir builds on top of Erlang and shares the same abstractions for building distributed, fault-tolerant applications.

Lua -
Lua is a lightweight, multi-paradigm programming language designed primarily for embedded use in applications. Lua is cross-platform, since the interpreter is written in ANSI C, and has a relatively simple C API.
 
C++ -
C++ is a general-purpose programming language. It has imperative, object-oriented and generic programming features, while also providing facilities for low-level memory manipulation. 


2. Client Side Scripting -

HTML-
Hypertext Markup Language is the standard markup language for creating web pages and web applications.

CSS -
Cascading Style Sheets is a style sheet language used for describing the presentation of a document written in a markup language like HTML.

Javascript -
JavaScript, often abbreviated as JS, is a high-level, interpreted programming language. It is a language which is also characterized as dynamic, weakly typed, prototype-based and multi-paradigm.

VbScript -
VBScript is an Active Scripting language developed by Microsoft that is modeled on Visual Basic.
 
Perl -
Perl is a family of high-level, general-purpose, interpreted, dynamic programming languages. The languages in this family include Perl 5 and Perl 6.

Lingo -
Lingo is a verbose object-oriented scripting language developed for use in Adobe director.

Rexx -
Rexx is an interpreted programming language developed at IBM by Mike Cowlishaw. It is a structured, high-level programming language designed for ease of learning and reading.

Ajax -
Ajax is a client-side script that communicates to and from a server/database without the need for a postback or a complete page refresh.


3. List down all the tools, languages, technologies, Databases, Styling Frameworks, Web Frameworks, Services which are available today for building a web app.

Ans -
1.  Tools :

Input -
Input is a visual online form builder that makes it super-easy to create responsive forms based on Bootstrap, Materialize, or Foundation. It adds framework-specific HTML classes; you simply download and insert the code into your project.

Animista -
This is a really comprehensive and feature-rich online tool for building CSS animations. There are dozens of options to create custom animations including type of animation, object to animate, duration, timing function and so on.

Waypoints -
Scrolling animations and interactions are in demand in many layouts today. This library, available for jQuery, Zepto, or in vanilla JavaScript, is the easiest way to trigger a function when you scroll to an element on the page.

Reactide-
Reactide is described as “the first dedicated IDE for React web application development”. It's a cross-platform desktop app that will enable you to quickly render projects with no build or server configuration, reducing the complexity of building React apps.
     
2. Databases :

DB2 (IBM) -
DB2 is a database product from IBM. It is a Relational Database Management System (RDBMS). DB2 is designed to store, analyze and retrieve the data efficiently. DB2 product is extended with the support of Object-Oriented features and non-relational structures with XML.

MySQL -
MySQL is an open-source relational database management system. Its name is a combination of "My", the name of co-founder Michael Widenius's daughter, and "SQL", the abbreviation for Structured Query Language.
 
Oracle -
Oracle Database is a multi-model database management system produced and marketed by Oracle Corporation. It is the world's most popular database for running online transaction processing, data warehousing and mixed database workloads.
 
PostgreSQL -
PostgreSQL, often simply Postgres, is an object-relational database management system with an emphasis on extensibility and standards compliance.
 
SQLite -
SQLite is a relational database management system contained in a C programming library. In contrast to many other database management systems, SQLite is not a client–server database engine. Rather, it is embedded into the end program.

SQL Server ( Microsoft) 
Microsoft SQL Server is a relational database management system developed by Microsoft. As a database server, it is a software product with the primary function of storing and retrieving data as requested.

Sybase 
Sybase was an enterprise software and services company that produced software to manage and analyze information in relational databases. Sybase was acquired by SAP in 2010.

couchDB  (Apache) 
Apache CouchDB is open source database software that focuses on ease of use and having a scalable architecture.

mongoDB
MongoDB is a free and open-source cross-platform document-oriented database program. Classified as a NoSQL database program, MongoDB uses JSON-like documents with schemas.

        
3. Styling Frameworks:

PureCSS 
Materialize 
LayersCSS 
Mobi 
MiniCSS 
Bulma 


4. Web Frameworks :

Django - written in python 
Flask - written in python 
        micro web framework 
Ruby on Rails 
Pylons project  - python 
Sinatra - Ruby 
Symfony - php 
Express.js  - framework for node.js 
Laravel  - php
Webware for Python
Bottle – Python
Merb – Ruby
 

5. IDEs-

Java - Eclipse , Netbeans, BlueJ, JDeveloper, DrJava, JCreator, Kawa 

Python - Atom , VSCode, IDLE, Thonny , Eric, LiClipse, PyCharm, PyDev 

PHP - PHPStorm, Aptana, Atom, Bluefish, Codelite, Geany, Gedit


6. Payment frameworks :

IPF - global framework 
samsung pay framework 
Phonegap 
Appcelerator 
jQuery mobile 
Onsen UI 
Wink toolkit 


3. Refering the above task build 3 different combinations of Requirments to build a webapp.

Ans - Example :

        Chat application : Node.js 
                                     MongoDB 
                                     HTML
                                     CSS 

4. Open Source APIs -

Resin
TensorFlow
Grafeas
AppFog
Nodester
IEX
Kinetic
Exxponent
IdentityServer
